# Effect-of-Words-on-Tweet-Popularity
In this era of widespread mobile technology usage, social networks are populated by people from around the world with varying opinions and interests. To increase the reach and engagement of the content put out in terms of likes, retweets, quote retweets, and shares, a lot of thought and time is invested in writing a tweet's 280 characters to make it popular. A tweet can be a mix of any of the following: text, emoticons, links, images, videos, hashtags, embedded videos, and mentions. In this work, we want to specifically understand the effect of words on tweet popularity. In most of the previous work on causal effects, variables are engineered to be binary in nature but that is not always feasible when considering text. In this work, we represent sentences using their semantic attributes and topic modeling. We are trying to answer a counterfactual query if the user had chosen a different set of words to construct the tweet, would the popularity and reach of the tweet in terms of likes, and retweets would have increased? We do this by first using the PC structure learning algorithm to find the causal model behind the features of the tweet and then using Backdoor linear regression to calculate whether these features affect positively or negatively the change in popularity in terms of likes and retweets. We conclude that the topic act as a mediating variable when the number of likes is the outcome variable. The other features that majorly impact the outcome variables are the complexity of the sentence as measured by the number of conjunctions, the number of action words, the number of collective and proper nouns, and the sentiment of the sentence.
